# Aug 28 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. WASI.dev includes all phases of proposals
1. Other agenda items
    1. N/A

## Attendees

* Danny Macovei
* Kate Goldenring
* Bailey Hayes
* Eric Gregory

## Notes

* Consider announcing that WASI.dev includes all phases of proposals in Zulip
* Topics to bring up at plumbers summit?
  * Danny: How is it determined how things make it into the OCI registry and who has the ability to? 
  * Kate: Good conversation to have with SIG packaging too.
  * Bailey: Right now, everyone should only be able to publish to their project's namespace, such as wkg to ba/wkg. WASI stuff should not be under BA. You always solve the problem when someone presents it. Haven't see a BA component or WIT yet that has hit that
  * Danny: Maybe something from wasm-tools -- the command line tool. 
  * Bailey: Yeah, the playground https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasm-tools/parse. That would be a great first target. BA/wasmtools/something else
  * Danny: I am assuming I'd talk to Alex
  * Bailey: Or an issue in the wasm-tools repo
* Should we have a page in docs that lists all BA projects/resources
  * Bailey: We have a limited number of complete tools but enough to mention
  * Kate: Maybe these are things we need to document period: WAC, wRPC. What is the status on WAC docs, Danny?
  * Danny: Taylor is working on it. Still working on user experience: should it be in a toml and deduced from the WIT itself? Don't want to document it until it is done
  * Eric: I'm working on a componentize.dev blog post
  * Bailey: I interviewed James last night for the componentize.dev demo he showed at the Wasm WG. Showed all you can do with wkg. That flow should all be documented. Also need to add C# docs to component book.
* WASI.dev
  * Bailey: who maintains WASI.dev
  * Kate: We do but Eric has merge privileges 
  * Bailey: we should merge this: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasi.dev/pull/26
  * Done
  * Kate: Should we have code owners? Is that a best practice for BA projects?
  * Bailey: Best practices doc that we are doing to publish soon: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/pull/52/files; https://github.com/ricochet/ba-template
* Kate: BA landscape?
  * B: Right now, it is just this https://bytecodealliance.org/projects
  * B: Wish we had logos for projects
* Docs session at plumbers summit?
  * Danny: Hard to document pushing and pulling a registry if the components do not exist in the registry
  * Kate: we need a roadmap to know when can get those component and WITs in a registry 
  * Kate: I think we should discuss whether docs stuff is best served in a synchronous conversation or if async is sufficient

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate: Watch James' demo and encapsulate documenting it as an issue
* [ ] Kate: Add c# docs as a good first issue
* [ ] All: Brainstorm topics/outline for SIG docs session
