# Nov 20 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. [MOVED to next meeting] Project management for component docs - Timo 
    2. Meeting cadence and timezones check in
    3. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* Meeting time
  * How do people feel about it?
  * Eric: I can only come for the first 30 minutes so pushed up 30 would be even better.
  * Danny: Can't be 30 minutes later because of component model Meeting
  * Kate: I wont be very functioning if we move it up
* WASI.dev
  * Eric: getting community contributions which has been nice. Could use a more formal process for noting when there has been a change
  * Kate: Maybe we have a note that says "hey, is this missing something? Submit an issue"

## Action Items

* [ ] TODO
