# Jul 17 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
2. Announcements
3. Other agenda items

## Attendees

* Ryan Levick
* David Bryant
* Danny Macovei
* Kate Goldenring

## Notes
- There were no agenda items so Kate started off the meeting by asking if there were any objectives that should be completed before KubeCon NA in Nov. Danny asked David if there would be a BACon at WasmCon this year? WasmCon is colocated with KubeCon, so it is a different set up this year. Last year, we had an empty day on Friday so that was a good opportunity to add the BAcon hackathon. We’d have to convince people to come in early to do one in conjunction with KubeCon. SIG community has been discussing it. Danny mentioned that for any hackathon in the future it would be interesting to get feedback on BAcon -- what people liked or would want changed about the event.
- The group discussed wanting the BA website updated by KubeCon NA. Kate volunteered.
- Component book could also use update: more examples, on ramp, registry support (ghcr work). The publishing story is not there for GHCR based registries. It would be nice to have a quickstart for running and composing components that could pull the component from the registry. We need to first push the component and WIT to the BA registry. We need to check on where wa-package tools are. Many are only Warg aware — not OCI and Warg aware. Danny will talk to Lann about how others can get examples in there.
- WASI.dev: planning for 0.2.1 release - we should create an issue to track bumping it in the docs. Will likely want to also show the 0.2.0 interfaces.
- WasmCon printout? Last year it was about becoming a member of the BA rather than info. Maybe this year we could help put together a terms sheet that participants this year can use

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate: Add documentation to BA site
* [ ] Danny: Reach out to Lann about adding component and WIT for docs quickstart to BA registry and create GH issue to trackt he work
* [ ] Kate: Create wasi.dev issue to track site bump for 0.2.1
