# Jul 3 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
1. Other agenda items

## Attendees

* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* Reviewed meeting notes from the past month and identified action items to prioritize and roll forward.
* There have been a lot of recent changes in the registry space&mdash;we'd like to document these (and the availability of the [WASI interfaces hosted on GitHub Packages](https://github.com/orgs/WebAssembly/packages?repo_name=WASI)) on wasi.dev.
* There remains a need to update bytecodealliance.org to make learning resources more available. A good first step is to identify where and how to link the Component Model book.
* Eric has an action item to elaborate on the proposal process and list Phase 1 and 2 proposals on wasi.dev.

## Action Items

* [ ] Danny will bring updates on registry developments to the next meeting so we can discuss where and how to document.
* [ ] Eric will work on updating wasi.dev to list proposals.
