# Sep 11 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

Kate walks through docs discussion points for forthcoming BA summit: 

* Updates to the component docs since last summit
* Growth in contributors
* WASI.devÂ updates to include earlier phase interfaces (this is a good PSA for folks)
* Goals to update BA site
* Sore areas: keeping up with WIT.md, WAC missing, registries docs, language toolchain updates, crowd source thoughts here...

Kate: Before the summit, we should add contributing guidelines and an issue template for earlier phase interface authors on how they can make updates to wasi.dev

Kate: We should add issue speaking to whether/how we want to reflect new versions for WASI

Danny: We could have it just slurp up latest versions from GHCR, both for WASI and for interfaces

Kate: Sore areas for discussion include keeping up with wit.md, bringing in `wac plug` rather than deprecated `wasm-tools compose`, missing language toolchain updates in component book.

Open question: How are we going telling the world about components? 

Danny thinks completion of wasm-pkg-tools will make a big difference.

Eric: There is still room for refinement on the pathing for a component-interested person who is trying to figure out where to get started on a learning journey.

Kate: It would be cool to have a "Learn by example" site/page where we walk through the fundamentals. We might have to choose a language toolchain (perhaps Rust), but this could be really valuable.

## Action Items

* [ ] Plan for summit
