# July 12 project call

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda
1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Note: meeting notes linked in the invite.
    1. Please help add your name to the meeting notes.
    1. Please help take notes.
    1. Thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Notes

### Attendees

- fitzgen
- elliottt
- alexcrichton
- avanhatt
- afonso360
- cfallin
- abrown
- uweigand

### Notes

- avanhatt: working on integrating verifier into main repo
- cfallin: no updates
- afonso360: no updates
- elliottt: regalloc2 work in the background
- alexcrichton: fuzzbug from incorrect categorization of SSE level of an
  instruction; good to know fuzzing still works
- uweigand: no updates
- abrown: no updates
- fizgen: still working on tail calls; on aarch64 now
