# July 2 SIG-Community Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announce that the meeting will be recorded and hit record as agreed upon in inaugural meeting. 
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. Monthly Community Live Stream (Bailey)
    2. SIG-community 1Password (David)
    3. Meeting recordings (Karen) 

## Attendees

* David Bryant
* Divya Mohan
* Bailey Hayes
* Karen Chu

## Notes

* Monthly Community Live Stream (Bailey)
    * want to figure out how to make it better
    * there isn't a ton of live attendance - we could be better about promoting it
    * currently running it on Restream (established before there was a Zoom account for the BA) and would like to propose switching it to Zoom so anyone can jump in and talk
    * Rotating time zones makes it really confusing for people to show up and participate; since we don't get much live attendance, we can just pick a new time that works well for whoever is running the meeting + the community; we can add another time slot later if it makes sense
    * Would like to propose rotating hosts so it's not just Bailey; Bailey is happy to do the leg work (topics to cover + finding engineers to join) but could use some help hosting
    * [Divya] Divya does livestreaming for her job; different time zones aren't super helpful; consistency is important and we’re not talking about it enough (should at least target the Zulip chat + aim at new members + try BA Twitter/LinkedIn beforehand)
    * [Divya] there aren’t a lot of livestreams that get 100+ viewers but there’s still a lot of replay value after recordings get published to YT; we should amplify the recordings
    * [Bailey] would like to play videos that people have pre-recorded + present other people’s content if they ask her to; content is better when in people’s own voices; open to interviews or fireside chats
    * [Bailey] one established time slot will help; having a few agenda items already on GH helps + offering to add agenda items for people is also effective; interested in moving topic tracking to Google Docs
    * [Karen]it would be good to do a “call for topics” maybe a week before; maybe we can do an automated message on Zulip
    * [Bailey] some of our technical folks don’t love being on camera; would love to find a group of people who can consistently help out
    * [David] David has attended several of the streams; Bailey is also able to impedance match the other presenter; Google doc + Zulip + Hackmd to manage editorial content; we should do/try all these ideas; we’re not a marketing forward foundation so maybe we can have board members tweet and help amplify
    * [Divya] when we’re talking about audience joining, weshould standardize the format; switching things up in an episode can make it hard; should attempt to come up with a format/skeleton of a livestream
    * [Divya] would be helpful to have a Google form to send out - time box it (for a specific stream) for a call for topics
    * [Bailey] we struggle to get topics so any ideas on growing the list would be great
    * [Bailey] will pick a time (last Tuesday of the month still feels like a good option); will switch to Zoom; will work on a standardized format
    * [Bailey] SIG-Community should own the community stream right? Would like the SIG to own agenda doc, oversight, mar-comms; Bailey is happy to host
    * [Karen] How about using our 3rd Tuesday meeting to help go over the following stream? +1 from Bailey
    * [Divya] it may be difficult to help find co-presenters; need a contingency plan if no one fills out the form; should think about back up plans
    * [Bailey] current back up plan is to bring David along
    * [David] could go through the back-up plan during the SIG-community call — review anything new in the alliance; newly recognized contributors; invite new SIG members; projects updates
    * [Divya] CNCF Slack used to do calls with updates from all the SIGs; will want to make sure we time box it so we can prepare the topics
    * [Bailey] for next time — would like to figure out how to create more written content; blog posts would be great for mailing lists; people are either in the camp of watching YT videos or reading blog posts; goal is to get Eric from Docs to write more notes for Wasmtime — would be great to get it going on a monthly cadence

* SIG-community 1password [David]
    * Karen & Divya have been resent 1password details as co-chairs
* Will the recording get uploaded to Youtube? [Karen]
    * [David] we will get a recording when the video is done and the co-chairs will need to upload it
## Action Items

* [Karen & Divya] Announce the next meeting in Zulip  + promoting it Monday before the call as well (Twitter/LinkedIn) 

