# July 16 SIG-Community Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announce that the meeting will be recorded and hit record as agreed upon in inaugural meeting. 
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* David Bryant
* Divya Mohan
* Karen Chu
* Zameer Fouzan

## Notes

- [David] WasmCon deadlines extended, BA is still sponsoring the event
    - What do we want to do from a community perspective?
    - Last year, we had a hackathon
    - [Karen] Do you think there will be any efforts for the hackathon?
    - [David] There have been discussions since the last time we aligned with the WASI Preview 2/Component Model; there was a thematic reason last time around. Do we have something right now? Potentially, but nothing formal.
    - [Karen] Very long week - to be kept in mind while organising the hackathon.
    - Davi] It may not be practical since it rolls over into KubeCon directly and could complicate. 
- [David] Even though the CfP has closed, there is also a conversation to be had about the invited speakers, keynote speakers etc. 
    - [David] We still have a chance to influence. Anything we want to highlight or anyone we want to have at the conference.
- [Karen] Prep work for the next stream?
    - [Divya] We should talk about it since we will run into it head-on the next time. We could draft some prep items
    - [David] +1 ; 
    - [Karen] WasmCon should be a topic
    - [David] Pending speakers + backlog content from the cancelled June stream, but very much open to suggestions.
    - [Karen] Workflow? Should we do a Call for Content this time around?
        - [Karen] Google Form / Pinging each SIG individually
        - [David] Would be a helpful thing to ping/use a Google form to source content on Zulip
        - [Karen] Should we just post on #general?
        - [David] We have fewer members in #community-stream, so yes.
        - [Divya] Iâ€™d recommend crossposting it in multiple places. Make it an OG post on #community-stream and then crosspost on #general 
        - Action owner: Divya/David
            - [Divya] How do we do this? Form?
                - [David & Karen] Yes, makes sense.
                - [Divya] Timebox this effort? 
                    - [David] Share any existing form that you may have & we can take it from there.


## Action Items

* [x] Share & iterate on the call-for-content form: David and Divya
