# May 29 - SIG Registries meeting
|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, David Bryant, Brian Hardock, Robin Brown, Calvin Prewitt, Guy Bedford, Luke Wagner, Michelle Dhanani
| Note Taker | 

Updates:

Agenda:
- \[David] Should we treat SIG-Packaging as rename or start fresh? With respect to the meeting history. SIG chairs election?
- \[Lann] `wasm-pkg-common` [#25](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-pkg-tools/pull/25)
    - Common types and config (`Label`, `PackageRef`, `Registry`)
    - Config file updates
        - `[package_registries]` allows individual package mapping
            - Want the feature for root package registry override in tools, but could punt on exposing in config
        - Backend-specific config decoupled
    - Registry metadata updates (`/.well-known/wasm-pkg/registry.json`)
        - Optional `preferredProtocol`
        - Protocol-specific config decoupled
- \[Robin] Spec Authoring Flow


## Summary of SIG-Packaging Rename

Treat it as a new group
* New channel
* New google group
* Rename "registry" to "warg"
* New "SIG-Packaging" repo
    * Group documents (goals, use cases, glossary)
    * Entrypoints/landing pages
* Current chairs become acting chairs of the new group
* Archive https://github.com/bytecodealliance/sig-registries repo
* Archive old meeting notes and governance
